[[quick-start-packages]]
Quick Start - Packages
----------------------

TIP: We recommend reading the Quick Start Guide to NewsML-G2 Basics +
before this Quick Start Guide to News Packages.

[[introduction-7]]
Introduction
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ability to package together items of news content is important to
news organisations and customers. Using packages, different facets of
the coverage of a news story can be viewed in a named relationship, such
as "Main Article", "Sidebar", Background". Another frequent application
of packages is to aggregate content for news products, for example "Top
Ten" news packages such as that illustrated below

TIP: A description of how to create this type of package with ordered components can be
found further on in this document.

image::Web-Top-Ten.gif[A Top Ten News package displayed on a web page,width=402,height=467]

[[_Toc470002525]]

.Figure 6: A Top Ten News Package displayed on the Web

Packages can range from simple collections on a common theme, to rich
hierarchical structures.

NewsML-G2 is flexible in allowing a provider to package content that has
already been published, or a package may be sent together with all of
its content resources in a single News Message. See Exchanging News:
News Messages.

[[packages-and-links-the-difference]]
Packages and Links: the difference
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The NewsML-G2 <link> property is a useful way to indicate optional
supplementary resources that may be retrieved by the end-user when
processing or consuming a NewsML-G2 Item. Links should not be used as a
lightweight method of packaging news; a NewsML-G2 processor would not be
able to distinguish between News Items with some optional resources, and
News Items that are intended to be pseudo-packages using links. It is
also a basic NewsML-G2 rule that a News Item only conveys one piece of
content.

By contrast, Packages:

* Express structure, allowing news to be packaged as a list, or as a
named hierarchy of content resources.
* Have a mode property that enables the expression of a relationship
between the components of a package group.

[[package-structure]]
Package Structure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A simple Package has a structure as shown in the example below. The top
level for content of a Package Item is one and only one <groupSet>
element, followed by at least one <group> structure containing one or
more <ItemRef> references to content. The <group> structure may also be
repeated, but this example has only one. The diagram below shows a
skeleton of the XML elements in a simple package and a visualisation of
the relationship that this structure creates:

[[_Toc470002526]]

image::PackageHierarchySimple2016.png[Simple package structure]

.Figure 7: Top-level element view of a simple package, and (right) a visualisation of the structure

[[_Ref468979372]][[_Toc403108019]]

.LISTING: Simple NewsML-G2 Package

The following NewsML-G2 document illustrates the package structure
above.

(All Scheme Aliases used in listing below indicate IPTC NewsCodes
vocabularies, except for the following alias values: _staffjobs,
mystaff, svc, group.)_

Each wrapper element is highlighted using the background colour matching
the structure diagram. A more detailed logical diagram of the NewsML-G2
document structure is shown in the QuickStart Guide to NewsML-G2 Basics.

[source, xml]
----
include::{includedir}/../../GuidelinesCodeExamples_2017/LISTING_6_Simple_NewsML-G2_Package.xml[]
----

[[document-structure-3]]
Document structure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The building blocks of the Package Item are the <packageItem> root
element, with additional wrapping elements for metadata about the
Package (itemMeta), metadata about the content (contentMeta) and the
package content (groupSet). The top level (root) element <packageItem>
attributes are:

[source,xml]
<packageItem xmlns="http://iptc.org/std/nar/2006-10-01/"
	guid="tag:example.com,2008:UK-NEWS-TOPTEN:UK20081220098658"
	version="9">
	standard="NewsML-G2"
	standardversion="2.23"
	conformance="power"

This is followed by Catalog information:

[source,xml]
<catalogRef
	href="http://www.iptc.org/std/catalog/catalog.IPTC-G2-Standards_29.xml" />
<catalogRef
	href="http:/www.example.com/customer/cv/catalog4customers-1.xml" />

[[item-metadata]]
Item Metadata
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The <itemMeta> wrapper contains properties that are aids to processing
the package contents.

[[profile]]
Profile
^^^^^^^

The <profile> element allows a provider to name a pre-arranged template
or transformation stylesheet that can be used to process the package,
for example "text and picture" could be the name of a template;
"textpicture.xsl" would be an xsl stylesheet. The @versioninfo of a
<profile> enables the template or stylesheet to be versioned:

[source,xml]
<profile versioninfo="1.0.0.2">simple_text_with_picture.xsl</profile>

[[item-metadata-in-full]]
Item Metadata in full
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[source,xml]
<itemMeta>
	<itemClass qcode="ninat:composite" />
	<provider qcode="nprov:AcmeNews" />
	<versionCreated>2016-11-07T12:30:00Z</versionCreated>
	<firstCreated>2008-12-20T12:25:35Z</firstCreated>
	<pubStatus qcode="stat:usable" />
	<profile versioninfo="1.0.0.2">simple_text_with_picture.xsl</profile>
	<service qcode="svc:uktop">
		<name>Top UK News stories hourly</name>
	</service>
	<title>UK-TOPNEWS</title>
	<edNote>Updates the previous version</edNote>
	<signal qcode="sig:update" />
</itemMeta>

[[content-metadata]]
Content Metadata
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The <contentMeta> wrapper in this example contains extended metadata
about the person who compiled the package, including hours of duty and
contact telephone number.

[source,xml]
<contentMeta>
	<contributor jobtitle="staffjobs:cpe" qcode="mystaff:MDancer">
		<name>Maurice Dancer</name>
		<name>Chief Packaging Editor</name>
		<definition validto="2016-11-17T17:30:00Z">Duty Packaging Editor</definition>
		<note validto="2016-11-17T17:30:00Z">Available on +44 207 345 4567 until 17:30 GMT today</note>
	</contributor>
	<headline xml:lang="en">UK</headline>
</contentMeta>

[[group-set]]
Group Set
~~~~~~~~~

The <groupSet> has a mandatory root attribute that references the
primary child <group> element. The primary <group> element must identify
itself using an @id that matches the @root of <groupSet>.

[source,xml]
<groupSet root="G1">

[[group]]
Group
^^^^^

Although the id attribute is optional, in practice one must be provided
to match the mandatory root attribute of the <groupSet>, even if there
is only one <group>. If there is more than one <group> element, one and
only one can be identified as the root group.

Group elements must also contain a role attribute to declare its role
within the package structure. The role is a QCode, but a Scheme of Roles
may typically contain values representing "main", "sidebar" or other
editorial terms that express how the content is intended to be used in
the package.

[source,xml]
<group id="G1" role="group:main">

[[item-reference]]
Item Reference
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The <itemRef> element identifies an Item or a Web resource using @href
and/or @residref. The IPTC recommends that Package Items should
reference NewsML-G2 Items if they are available (typically News Items)
rather than other types of resource, such as "raw" news objects.
Referring to other kinds of Web-accessible resource is allowed and is a
legitimate use-case, however it has some disadvantages. Resources
referred to in this way cannot be managed or versioned: if one of the
resources is changed, the entire package may need to be re-compiled and
sent, whereas a reference to a managed object such as a <newsItem> may
refer to the latest (or a specific) version.

The example versions the referenced Items using @version, and gives
processing or usage hints using @contenttype and @size. The @contenttype
uses the registered IANA Media Type for a NewsML-G2 News Item:

[source,xml]
<itemRef residref="urn:newsml:iptc.org:20081007:tutorial-item-A"
	contenttype="application/vnd.iptc.g2.newsitem+xml"
	size="2345">

The Item Reference includes properties from the referenced Item that
have been extracted as an aid to processing:

[source,xml]
	<itemClass qcode="ninat:text" />
	<provider qcode="nprov:AcmeNews"/>
	<pubStatus qcode="stat:usable"/>
	<title>Obama annonce son équipe</title>
	<description role="drol:summary">Le rachat il y a deux ans de la
		propriété par Alan Gerry, magnat local de la télévision câblée, a
		permis l'investissement des 100 millions de dollars qui étaient
		nécessaires pour le musée et ses annexes, et vise à favoriser le
		développement touristique d'une région frappée par le chômage.
	</description>
</itemRef>

[[hierarchical-package-structure]]
Hierarchical Package Structure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Hierarchies of Groups and Item References can be created by adding
multiple Groups to Packages and using <groupRef>, to reference other
Groups by @idref, as illustrated by the following diagram:

[[_Toc403107367]][[_Toc470002527]]

image::PackageHierarchyNested2016.png[parent-child package]

.Figure 8: Code outline of hierarchical package with two groups, visualising parent-child structure (right)

The code listing below shows how such a hierarchical package would be
fully expressed in XML in a NewsML-G2 Group Set:

[[_Ref468979404]]

.LISTING: Group Set example showing Hierarchical Package Structure

All Scheme Aliases used in listing below indicate IPTC NewsCodes
vocabularies, except for _group,_

[source, xml]
----
include::{includedir}/../../GuidelinesCodeExamples_2017/LISTING_7_Group_Set_example_showing_Hierarchical_Package_Structure.xml[]
----

In the example, the "root" group is identified as the group with
id="G1". This group has a role of "main" and consists of a text story
and a picture of Barack Obama. The group with id="G2" has the role of
"sidebar" and contains a text and picture of Hillary Clinton. It is
referenced by a <groupRef> in Group G1.

[[list-type-package-structure]]
List Type Package Structure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The @mode indicates the relationship between components of a group using
one of three values from the IPTC Package Group Mode NewsCodes
(recommended Scheme Alias "pgrmod"):

* pgrmod:bag – an unordered collection of components, for example
different components of a web news page with no special order, as in the
example below. This is the default @mode.
* pgrmod:seq – denotes a sequential package group set in descending
order, for example a "Top Ten" list: each sub-group would provide
references to a text article and a related picture.
* pgrmod:alt – an unordered collection. Each sub-group is an alternative
to its peer groups in the set, for example coverage of a news event
supplied in different languages.

[[_Toc403107368]][[_Toc470002528]]

image::PackageHierarchyList2016.png[Alternative package components]

.Figure 9: Code skeleton view of package with alternative components, with visualisation of structure

The diagram above shows a package containing two Items in the root
group, and a group reference to a "group of groups" with package mode
set to "alt" indicating that the child groups contain alternative
content. The example uses groups of associated video suitable for
different Android device screen sizes as indicated by the @role of each
group.

The code overview shows the root group referencing the two Items and the
<groupRef> element referencing the group with @id "G2". Group G2 has its
package mode set to "alt" and its components are references to alternate
groups G3, G4 and G5, which reference videos at the required rendition
for each screen type.

The right-hand image in the diagram is a visual representation of the
relationship expressed through this package structure.

Note the <group> that has its Mode set to "alt" – not the "main" group
but the second group with @id "G2". The components of this group are
alternatives: each references a group containing the video content. The
code example below shows how this relationship is fully expressed in
NewsML-G2:

[[_Ref468979427]]

.LISTING: Group Set example showing an "alt" Package Mode

All Scheme Aliases used in listing below indicate IPTC NewsCodes
vocabularies, except for _group,_

[source, xml]
----
include::{includedir}/../../GuidelinesCodeExamples_2017/LISTING_8_Group_Set_example_showing_an_ALT_Package_Mode.xml[]
----

[[a-sequential-top-ten-package]]
A Sequential "Top Ten" Package
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The screenshot at the start of this Chapter shows a "Top Ten" list of
news items in order of importance. The package mode of "seq" indicates
that the components are in descending order and a code skeleton and
visual representation of the package structure is shown in the diagram
below:

[[_Toc403107369]][[_Toc470002529]]

image::PackageHierarchySequential2016.png[Sequential mode package]

.Figure 10: Code skeleton of a sequential mode package and (right) the resulting relationship structure

Note how the <group> sets the Mode for its components, in this case the
component group references of the "main" group are sequentially ordered.
The relationship is fully-expressed in XML in NewsML-G2 as shown below:

[[group-set-example]]

.LISTING: Group Set example showing a "seq" Package Mode

All Scheme Aliases used in listing below indicate IPTC NewsCodes
vocabularies, except for _group,_

[source, xml]
----
include::{includedir}/../../GuidelinesCodeExamples_2017/LISTING_9_Group_Set_example_showing_a_SEQ_Package_Mode.xml[]
----

[[package-processing-considerations]]
Package Processing Considerations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[[other-newsml-g2-items]]
Other NewsML-G2 Items
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the above examples, the referenced resources in the package have been
News Items, but <itemRef> may also refer to other Items, such as Package
Items. The following example of <itemRef> shows how a Package Item can
be used as part of a Package Item. This type of "Super Package" could be
used to send a "Top Ten" package (a themed list of news) where each
referenced item is also a package consisting of references to the text,
picture and video coverage of each news story.

The advantage of using this "package of packages" approach is that it
promotes more efficient re-use of content. Once created, any of the
"sub-packages" can be easily referenced by more than one
"super-package": a package about a given story could be used by both
"Top News This Hour" and by "Today’s Top News". If the individual News
Items that make up a sub-package were to be referenced directly, these
references have to be assembled each time the story is used, either by
software or a journalist, which would be less efficient.

As these sub-packages are managed objects, we use @residref to identify
and locate the referenced items. Each referenced item may be a Package
Item, shown by the Item Class of "composite" and the Content Type of
"application/vnd.iptc.g2.packageitem+xml". Each <itemRef> would then
resemble the following:

[source,xml]
<itemRef residref="tag:afp.com,2008:TX-PAR:20080529:JYC99"
	contenttype="application/vnd.iptc.g2.packageitem+xml"
	size="28047">
	<itemClass qcode="ninat:composite" />
	<provider qcode="nprov:AFP"/>
	<pubStatus qcode="stat:usable"/>
	<title>Tiger Woods cherche son retour</title>
	<description role="drol:summary"> Tiger Woods lorem ipsum dolor sit amet,
		consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam feugiat. Pellentesque ut enim eget
		eros volutpat consectetur. Quisque sollicitudin, tortor ut dapibus
		porttitor, augue velit vulputate eros, in tempus orci nunc vitae nunc.
		Nam et lacus ut leo convallis posuere. Nullam risus.
	</description>
</itemRef>

[[facilitating-the-exchange-of-packages]]
Facilitating the Exchange of Packages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

There needs to be some consideration of how such a "Super Package"
should be processed by the receiver. The power and flexibility inherent
in NewsML-G2 Packages could lead to confusion and processing complexity
unless provider and receiver agree on a method for specifying the
structure of packages and signalling this to the receiving application.
Processing hints such as the <profile> property (described above)
intended to help resolve this issue.

In the example below, we maintain flexibility and inter-operability with
potential partner organisations by defining any number of standard
package "templates" – termed Profiles – for the Package, among other
processing hints. Partners would agree in advance on the Profiles and
rules for processing them. All that the provider then needs to do is
place the pre-arranged Profile name, or the name of a transformation
script, in the <profile> property.

Package profiles could be represented as diagrams like those shown
below:

[[_Ref219820326]][[_Toc470002530]]

image::PackageProfile2016.png[Package Profiles]

.Figure 11: Diagrams of Package Profiles. The numbers in brackets indicate the required items

In this example, the Profile Name is intended to be a signal to the
processor that references to each member of the Top Ten list are placed
in their own group, and that we create our Top Ten list in the "root"
group of the Package Item as an ordered list of <groupRef> elements. (as
in the "Top Ten" list profile shown in Figure 11)

The properties in <itemMeta> that can be used to provide information on
processing are:

<generator>, a versioned string denoting the name of the process or
service that created the package:

[source,xml]
<generator versioninfo="3.0">MyNews Top Ten Packager</generator>

<profile>, as discussed, sets the template or transformation stylesheet
of the package

[source,xml]
<profile versioninfo="1.0.0.2">ranked_idref_list</profile>

<signal> is a QCode type property that instructs the receiver to perform
any required actions upon receiving the Item. An <edNote> may contain
natural-language instructions, if necessary, and a <link> property
denotes the previous version of the package.

[source,xml]
<signal qcode="action:replacePrev" />
<edNote>Replace the previous package</edNote>
<link
	rel="irel:previousVersion"
	residref="tag:example.com,2008:UK-NEWS-TOPTEN:UK20081220098658"
	version="1"
/>
