[[generic-processes-and-conventions]]
Generic Processes and Conventions
---------------------------------

This Chapter discusses some processes, procedures and conventions which
are generic to all NewsML-G2 Items, and relate to best practice in the
wider context of news processing.

[[processing-rules-for-newsml-g2-items]]
Processing Rules for NewsML-G2 Items
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Although at CCL, NewsML-G2 is designed for maximum inter-operability,
providers are strongly recommended to document their implementation of
NewsML-G2 and the provider-specific rules and conventions used.

This information must be provided to receivers so that generic NewsML-G2
processors can be parameterised accordingly

An obvious example is Packages (see Package Processing Considerations)
where the structure and content types must be pre-arranged between
provider and receivers in order to facilitate correct processing.

Another example is the use of property attributes such as @role and
@type which refine the semantic of the property. There needs to be a
clear understanding of the concepts being used in these circumstances
for the full value of the information to be useful.

[[using-links]]
Using Links
~~~~~~~~~~~

[[introduction-18]]
Introduction
^^^^^^^^^^^^

The <link> property is used in the <itemMeta> section of a NewsML-G2
document to create a navigable link between the Item and a related
resource. Examples of the target of a link could be a Web page, a
discrete object such as an image file, or another NewsML-G2 Item.

Valid uses of <link> include:

* To indicate a supplementary resource, for example a picture of a
person mentioned in an article.
* To identify the resource that an Item is derived from, for example if
providing a translation.
* where systems do not support versioning, to provide a link to the
previous version of an Item.
* To identify the previous "take" of a multi-page article, or the
previous Item in a series of Items. (Note that these use cases are not
explicitly supported by the current version of the IPTC Item
Relationship NewsCodes. The <memberOf> property of Item Metadata
expresses that an Item is part of a series of Items, but not its
sequence.)
* Where a News Item conveys formatted text which references an
illustration, a dependency link from the article to the illustration is
indicated using <link>.

[[link-properties]]
Link properties
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Link uses the LinkType datatype (CCL), with optional attributes for Item
Relation (@rel) and the Target Resource Attributes group. For each
<link> at CCL, any number of child <title> properties of the target
resource may be added.

At PCL the Link1Type datatype is used, optionally with more extensive
attributes, which permits any property consistent with the structure of
the target resource to be used as a processing Hint. See Adding Hints
from the NAR namespace.

[[item-relation-rel-and-the-item-relationship-newscodes]]
Item Relation @rel and the Item Relationship NewsCodes
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

A QCode indicating the relationship of the current Item to the target
resource. For example, if the current Item is a translation from an
original article, the relationship may be indicated using the IPTC Item
Relation NewsCodes, for example:

<link rel="irel:translatedFrom">

The default relationship between the host Item and a resource identified
by a <link> is "See also". The CV broadly defines three types of
relationship:

* Navigation: "See Also".
* Dependency: "Depends On".
* Derivation: includes "Derived From" and other refinements of
derivation relationships.

The IPTC recommends that for derivation relationships, implementers
should use the most specific available representation. For example if a
picture conveyed by the item is a crop of the image indicated by <link>,
"Derived From" is not inaccurate, but "Cropped From" is preferred as it
is more specific.

[[iptc-item-relationship-cv-scheme-uri-httpcv.iptc.orgnewscodesitemrelation]]
IPTC Item Relationship CV (Scheme URI
http://cv.iptc.org/newscodes/itemrelation/)

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Relationship |Code |Definition
|See Also |seeAlso |The related item or resource can be used as
additional information. Full rendering of this Item does NOT depend on
the retrieval of the related item or resource

|Depends On |dependsOn |Full rendering of this Item depends on the
retrieval of the related item or resource.

|Derived From |derivedFrom |This item was derived from the related item
or resource.

|Associated With |associatedWith |RETIRED

|Previous Version |previousVersion |The related item is the previously
published version of this item.

|Translated From |translatedFrom |This item is a translation of the
related item or resource

|Cropped From |croppedFrom |The visual content of this item has been
cropped from the related item or resource.

|Evolved From |evolvedFrom |This item was evolved from the related item.
Typical use is for stories evolving over time, including corrections.

|Processed From |processedFrom |The content of this item has been
processed from the content of the related item or resource. Do not use
in the case of cropping (see croppedFrom).

|Previous Version |prevVersion |RETIRED. Replaced by previousVersion
(see above)
|=======================================================================

[[target-resource-attributes-2]]
Target Resource Attributes
++++++++++++++++++++++++++

These are property attributes that enable the receiver to accurately
identify the remote resource, its content type and size. See Target
Resource Attributes for further information.

[[item-title-title]]
Item Title <title>
++++++++++++++++++

A short natural language name describing the link, intended to be
displayed to users. It is not necessary that this <title> should be
extracted from the target resource. For example, a journalist may wish
to add a link and write a title for it.

<title xml:lang="en-GB">File picture of President Obama</title>

[[hint-and-extension-point-1]]
Hint and Extension Point
++++++++++++++++++++++++

At PCL any number of metadata properties from the IPTC’s News
Architecture (NAR) namespace may be included. For example, a picture
referenced by a link may have the recommended filename extracted from
the target resource as an aid to processing. See Hints and Extension
Points in NewsML-G2 for detailed guidance on this feature.

[[link-examples]]
 Link examples
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[[a-supplemental-picture-with-a-text-article-ccl]]
A supplemental picture with a text article (CCL)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The sender of a News Item containing a text article wishes to include a
link to a picture that may optionally be retrieved to illustrate the
article. The relationship to the target resource is "see also".

<newsItem xmlns="http://iptc.org/std/nar/2006-10-01/"

guid="tag:acmenews.com,2008:TX-PAR:20090529:JYC85"

version="1"

....>

<itemMeta>

<itemClass qcode="ninat:text" />

....

<edNote>With picture</edNote>

<link

rel="irel:seeAlso" Item relation

residref="tag:acmenews.com,2008:TX-PAR:20090529:JYC80">__ Item ref

<title>

File picture of President Obama Title

<title />

<link />

....

</itemMeta>

....

</newsItem>

[[a-required-picture-with-a-text-article-pcl]]
A required picture with a text article (PCL)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

A News Item contains a text article which is marked up explicitly to
reference a picture (for example in XHTML). The picture is required for
correct display of the text-with-picture story, therefore the
relationship to the target resource is "depends on".

A NewsML-G2 processor should be enabled to pre-fetch this required
target resource before the content of the news item is processed. As
shown in the example below, the "real world" link between the article
and the picture is established using the filename of the linked
resource.

This example is at PCL; we are able to extract the <itemClass> property
and <filename>, the recommended filename of the target resource (a News
Item), from the Item’s <itemMeta> wrapper and add these as child
elements of <link>.

<newsItem xmlns="http://iptc.org/std/nar/2006-10-01/"

guid="tag:acmenews.com,2008:TX-PAR:20090529:JYC85"

version="1"

standard="NewsML-G2" standardversion="2.23"

conformance="power"

....>

<itemMeta>

<itemClass qcode="ninat:text" />

....

<edNote>With picture</edNote>

<link

rel="irel:dependsOn" Item relation

residref="tag:acmenews.com,2008:TX-PAR:20090529:JYC80">__ Item ref

<itemClass qcode="ninat:text" />

<filename>

obama-omaha-20090606.jpg File name

</filename>

</link>

....

</itemMeta>

<contentSet>

<inlineXML>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">

....

<p>At Omaha Beach, President Obama led a ceremony to mark the landing of

thousands of U.S. troops on D-Day.</p>

<img style__="position: absolute; left: 0px; top: 0px;"

src="file:///obama-omaha-20090606.jpg" Picture ref

/>

....

</inlineXML>

</contentSet>

</newsItem>

[[linking-to-previous-versions-of-an-item-pcl]]
Linking to previous versions of an Item (PCL)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

(See also Processing Updates and Corrections) Some content management
systems do not maintain a common identifier for successive versions of
an information asset (such as text or picture), but maintain a link to
the identifier of the previous version of the asset. In these
circumstances, a <link> can inform recipients that the current Item is a
new version of a previously published Item, and provide a navigation to
retrieve the previous version of the Item, if required.footnote:[Even
where providers use the same ID, it is not mandatory to use a
consecutive ascending sequence of numbers to indicate successive
versions of an Item. Where it is required to positively identify the
previous version of an Item, a provider SHOULD add a <link> to the
previous version.] The relationship between the current item and the
previous version is "previousVersion".

<newsItem xmlns="http://iptc.org/std/nar/2006-10-01/"

guid="tag:acmenews.com,2008:TX-PAR:20090529:JYC85" new item

version="1" first version

....>

<itemMeta>

<itemClass qcode="ninat:text" />

....

<edNote>Replaces previous version. MUST correction, updates name of

minister</edNote>

<signal qcode="action:replace" />

<link

rel="irel:previousVersion"

residref="tag:acmenews.com,2008:TX-PAR:20090529:JYC80" previous item

version="1"> first version

<itemClass qcode="ninat:text" /

</link>

....

</itemMeta>

....

</newsItem>

Using this method, other target resources such as previous "takes" of a
multi-page article, the original picture from which the current item was
cropped, or the original text from which a translation has been made,
can be expressed using <link>

[[publishing-status]]
Publishing Status
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The NewsML-G2 <pubStatus> property uses a mandatory IPTC CV that
contains three values:

* usable
* withheld
* canceled

These terms have a specific meaning in a professional news workflow, and
it is the IPTC’s intention in designing NewsML-G2 that they be
interpreted by software systems. They are NOT intended as advisory
notices to journalists, although of course the Publishing Status may
well be a read-only property displayed by an editing system.

If no <pubStatus> property is present in an Item, the default value is
"usable", meaning that the item and its contents may be published.

If an item has a publishing status of "withheld", this signals that the
item and its contents may NOT be published until further notice. That
status may be published only after receipt of a new version of the item
– using the same GUID – that has a status of "usable".

For example, a provider may send an item of news (version 1), and
subsequently decided that a correction or amplification is needed, which
requires the sending of a new version of the item. If the new version
will not be ready for an appreciable time, the provider may send a new
version (version 2) of the item with a status of "withheld" to stop
further publication of the incorrect item. When the corrected version is
ready, it will be sent – using the same GUID – with a status of "usable"
(version 3).

An item with a status of "withheld" MUST NOT be published. It may only
have its status changed to "usable", at which point it may be published,
or "canceled".

If an error cannot be corrected, or the item needs to be permanently
withdrawn for some other reason, the provider may use "canceled" the
third value of <pubStatus> (note U.S. spelling). This instructs
receiving systems to remove all versions of the item from all locations,
including (and especially) archives. News organisations have faced legal
action arising from the inadvertent re-publication from an archive of
defamatory content.

[[_Toc470002542]]Figure 23: State Transition Diagram for <pubStatus>

A "canceled" item CANNOT have its status changed back to "usable" or
"withheld". If a provider wishes to send revised content, it MUST be
sent under a NEW GUID.

The <pubStatus> property is part of the <itemMeta> component, and uses a
QCode value. The scheme alias for the IPTC Publishing Status NewsCodes
is "stat":

<pubStatus qcode="stat:usable" />

[[embargo]]
Embargo
~~~~~~~

Professional, or business-to-business, news organisations often make use
of an _embargo_ to release information in advance, on the strict
understanding that it may not be released into the public domain until
after the _embargo time_ has expired, or until some other form of
permission has been given.

Embargo is NOT the same as the Publishing Status. Some systems process
the embargo time using software in order to trigger the release of
content when the embargo time is passed, but the intention of embargo is
also as an information management feature for journalists.

Embargos are generally an unwritten agreement and have no legal force.
Their success depends on cooperation between parties not to abuse the
system. Possible abuses include imposing unnecessary embargos in order
to manage the impact of news, or by breaking embargos and releasing news
into the public domain too early.

NewsML-G2 uses the optional <embargoed> property in <itemMeta> to
indicate whether an item is under an embargo. If the property is absent
there is no embargo:

<embargoed>2016-10-23T12:00:00Z</embargoed>

If the property is present AND empty, this enables providers to release
an item under embargo when the precise date and time that the embargo
expires is not known. In these circumstances, an <edNote> or some
contractual agreement between the provider and customer will specify the
conditions under which the embargo may be lifted.

For example, a provider may release an advance copy of a speech which
may not be released to the public until the speaker has finished
delivering it. The provider would have no way of knowing exactly when
this would be. Therefore some other means of authorising the release may
be negotiated between the parties, such as email or a phone call:

<embargoed />

<edNote>

Note to editors: STRICTLY EMBARGOED. Not for release until authorised.
Our +
News Desk will advise your duty editor by email. Release expected
about +
12noon on Monday, February 9.

</edNote>

Check the corresponding NewsML-G2 Specification Document for further
information regarding processing rules for <embargoed>. The processing
model is illustrated in Figure 24.

[[_Ref221708567]][[_Ref221708573]][[_Toc470002543]]Figure 24:
[[_Ref469300493]]Receiver-side rules for processing <embargoed>

[[_Ref222732230]][[_Ref222732233]][[_Ref222733818]][[_Ref222733821]][[_Ref222734868]][[_Ref222734870]]

[[geographical-location]]
Geographical Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are two properties of <contentMeta> that express the geographic
location(s) associated with a NewsML-G2 Item, with a distinction between
their uses.

The Located <located> property expresses the origin of the content:
where the content was created, for example a text article written or a
picture taken. The intention of <located> is as a machine-readable
equivalent to the location given in a Dateline. (The NewsML-G2
<dateline> property is also available as a natural-language string. for
example "MOSCOW, Monday (Reuters)")

The accepted convention, which in some news organisations is formalised
as part of a code of practice, is that the Dateline identifies the place
where content is created, NOT the place where an event takes place. They
may be the same, but this is not necessarily the case.

* In conflict zones, journalists may not have access to the area where
reported events are taking place.
* Even when physical access is not an issue, journalists may have relied
on interviewing people by telephone or on reports from freelance
correspondents in order to get the material used to write an article.

The Located property is therefore provided to express the place of
origin of content as part of _Administrative_ Metadata:

<located type="loctype:city" qcode="city:75000">

<name>Paris</name>

</located>

To express the geographical information that is important in the context
of the article or picture, the Subject property <subject> is used,
optionally using a Concept type (@type) In the example below
"cpnat:geoArea" from the IPTC Concept Nature NewsCodes, is used, but
providers may have their own scheme(s).

The Subject property is _Descriptive_ Metadata:

<subject type="cpnat:geoArea" qcode="city:Tblisi">

<broader qcode="cntry:Georgia">

<name>Georgia</name>

</broader>

</subject>

This news story fragment from Reuters and the accompanying code listing
illustrate the use of <located> and <subject>. The geographical subjects
of the report are Georgia and South Ossetia, but the report was written
in Moscow:

_
MOSCOW, Monday (Reuters) - The breakaway Georgian region of South
Ossetia alleged today that two unexploded Georgian shells landed in its
capital Tskhinvali, but Tbilisi dismissed the claim as nonsense.

Both sides have regularly....
_

1.  __
[[_Ref222628089]]Illustrating Located, Subject and Dateline
__

All Scheme Aliases used in listing below indicate IPTC NewsCodes
vocabularies, except for the following alias values: _city, cntry, web,
reg,_

<contentMeta>

<contentCreated>2016-02-09T09:17:00+03:00

</contentCreated>

<located qcode="city:Moscow">

<broader qcode="cntry:Russia" />

</located>

<creator qcode="web:reuters.com">

<name>Thomson Reuters</name>

</creator>

<language tag="en-US" />

<subject type="cpnat:geoArea" qcode="city:Tskhinvali">

<broader qcode="reg:SouthOssetia">

<name>South Ossetia</name>

</broader>

</subject>

<subject type="cpnat:geoArea" qcode="city:Tblisi">

<broader qcode="cntry:Georgia">

<name>Georgia</name>

</broader>

</subject>

<dateline>MOSCOW, Monday (Reuters)</dateline>

</contentMeta>

[[processing-updates-and-corrections]]
Processing Updates and Corrections
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By its nature, news may need frequent updating, and in some cases
correcting, as new facts emerge. The simplest NewsML-G2 mechanism for
dealing with updated content is to re-issue an item using the same GUID
with a new Version.

In the absence of any specific instructions from the provider, a
"usable" item should be regarded as replacing any previous version of
the item with the same GUID. In practice, a provider is likely to
provide some supplementary information in the form of a human-readable
<edNote> which can be displayed to inform recipients of the reason for
the update.

NewsML-G2 also provides machine-readable features to express whether a
new version updates or corrects previous versions of an Item and a
further indication of the impact of the change, using the <signal>
property under Item Metadata at CCL and PCL.

Signal uses a QCode to identify an action from a CV. To promote
interoperability, the IPTC maintains NewsCodes for this purpose, but
note it is up to the provider to specify the rules for applying the
codes so that their end-users can correctly process the instruction.

[[signalling-an-update-or-correction]]
Signalling an Update or Correction
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Any version of an item except the initial version is implicitly an
update of the previous version. It is not required to use the update
signal, but it is not always possible to infer from the version number
whether a document is an initial version or is implicitly an update.
Therefore the IPTC recommends that <signal> is used with the IPTC Signal
NewsCodes (Scheme URI http://cv.iptc.org/newscodes/signal/ and
recommended Schema Alias "sig"). The relevant members of the Scheme are:

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Code |Definition |Note
|update |This version of the Item includes an update of some part of the
previous version of the Item. |Implies that this version of the Item is
not the initial version

|correction |This version of the Item corrects some part of a previous
version of the Item. |Implies that this version of the Item is not the
initial version. This Correction signal does not indicate in which
version(s) of the Item the corrected error existed.
|=======================================================================

In addition, the Editorial Note <edNote> property under Item Metadata
may be used to provide natural language details about the update or
correction, such as specifying a name in the text that has been
corrected or whether a paragraph with updated information has been added
to the text.

<newsItem xmlns="http://iptc.org/std/nar/2006-10-01/"

guid="tag:afp.com,2008:TX-PAR:20090529:JYC80" current item

version="2" new version

....>

<itemMeta>

....

<edNote>Updates previous version by appending these paragraphs</edNote>

<signal qcode="sig:update" />

....

[[signalling-the-impact-of-an-update]]
Signalling the impact of an update
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It’s possible to express the impact of an update or correction using
@severity and one of the Severity NewsCodes
(http://cv.iptc.org/newscodes/severity/), recommended Scheme Alias "sev"
. 

The two (self-explanatory) NewsCodes for Severity are:

* Major
* Minor

For example:

<newsItem xmlns="http://iptc.org/std/nar/2006-10-01/"

guid="tag:afp.com,2008:TX-PAR:20090529:JYC80" current item

version__="234256" new version

....>

<itemMeta>

....

<link

guidref="tag:afp.com,2008:TX-PAR:20090529:JYC80"

version__="1234" />

<edNote>URGENT: Appends judge’s statement to previous version</edNote>

<signal qcode__="sig:update" severity__="sev:major" />

....

[[Warning]]

[[content-warning]]
Content Warning
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The <signal> property in Item Metadata may be used to inform end-users
that the nature of the content being sent may be perceived as being
offensive to some audiences. This uses the IPTC Signal NewsCodes, with
Scheme URI http://cv.iptc.org/newscodes/signal and recommended Schema
Alias "sig" with a code of "cwarn":

<signal qcode__="sig:warn" />

The Signal property is available at CCL and PCL.

Optionally, the nature of the warning can be expressed using the Exclude
Audience property <exclAudience> and using the IPTC Content Warning
NewsCodes. The Scheme URI is
http://cv.iptc.org/newscodes/contentwarning/  and recommended Scheme
Alias is "cwarn". The Scheme values are:

[cols=",",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Code |Definition
|death |The content could be perceived as offensive due to the
discussion or display of death.

|language |The content could be perceived as offensive due to the
language used..

|nudity |The content could be perceived as offensive due to nudity.

|sexuality |The content could be perceived as offensive due to the
discussion or display of sexuality.

|violence |The content could be perceived as offensive due to the
discussion or display of violence.
|=======================================================================

For example:

<signal qcode__="sig:warn" />

<exclAudience qcode="cwarn:nudity"/>

<exclAudience qcode="cwarn:language"/>

[[Ratings]][[_Ref340666204]][[_Ref375077249]][[_Ref375077257]]

[[working-with-social-media]]
Working with Social Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[[ratings]]
Ratings
^^^^^^^

The ability for end-users to rate or interact with content has undergone
enormous growth as part of social media and the "socialising" of the
Web, and has led to a clear business need that user actions and ratings
must be expressed as part of the metadata for all kinds of content.

G2 provides a set of properties for implementers for a flexible use in
expressing actions and ratings:

* The <userInteraction> element can be used to express interactions with
the content of this item such as Facebook "likes", tweets, and page
views.
* The <rating> element contains means to express a rating value that
applies to the content of this item, such as a star rating, and includes
the ability to convey how many "raters" led to the rating, plus
information about how the rating system is constructed and how the
rating value was calculated.

Both elements are children of <contentMeta> in any type of NewsML-G2
Item, and of <partMeta> in any NewsML-G2 Item except for Concept Items
and Planning Items.

[[the-userinteraction-element]]
The <userInteraction> element
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This element expresses the number of times that end-users have
interacted with content in the form of "Likes", votes, tweets and other
metrics. If the element is used, it has two mandatory attributes:

* interactions: the count of executed interactions (expressed as a
non-negative integer)
* interactiontype: a QCode indicating the type of interaction which is
reflected by this property. The proposed IPTC CV is User Interaction
Type, Scheme URI http://cv.iptc.org/newscodes/useractiontype/ with a
recommended Scheme Alias of "useracttype"

The example below expresses the number of Facebook "Likes", Google+ "+1"
and tweets garnered by the content conveyed in the NewsML-G2 document.

<contentMeta>

...

<userInteraction

interactions="36"

interactiontype="useracttype:fblike" />

<userInteraction

interactions="22"

interactiontype="useracttype:googleplus" />

<userInteraction

interactions="1203"

interactiontype="useracttype:tweets" />

...

</contentMeta>

...

The User Action Type NewsCodes have a Scheme URI of
http://cv.iptc.org/newscodes/useractiontype/ and a recommended Scheme
Alias of "useracttype". NewsCodes in the scheme are:

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|NewsCode |Name |Definition
| fblike |Facebook Like |Indicates that the user interaction was
measured by Facebook's I Like feature.

|googleplus  |Google +1 |Indicates that the user interaction was
measured by Google's +1 feature.

|retweets  |Twitter re-tweets |Indicates that the user interaction was
measured by re-tweets of a Twitter tweet.

|tweets |Twitter tweets |Indicates that the user interaction was
measured by tweets which mention the subject of the content.

|pageviews |Page views |Indicates that the user interaction was measured
by the number of page views of the content.
|=======================================================================

[[the-rating-element]]
The <rating> element
++++++++++++++++++++

Ratings such as "five stars" have existed for many years, in the news
domain they have been a long-standing feature of image management
software. Now they are used on the Web for all kinds of content as
providers seek to engage audiences and promote feedback. However,
different types of rating are needed – for example content may be rated
in terms of how "useful" it was to the user – so the NewsML-G2 <rating>
element is a wrapper for attributes that can define different rating
models, including :

* How the rating is expressed
* How many individual ratings exist
* How the rating was calculated

For ease of reading, the full attributes of <rating> are tabulated
below:

[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
a|
_
Definition
_

 a|
_
Name
_

 a|
__
Cardinality
__

 a|
__
Datatype
__

 a|
__
Notes
__

a|
_
The rating of the content expressed as decimal value
_

 a|
__
value
__

 a|

(1)


 a|
_
Decimal
_

 |

a|
__
How the value is calculated such as median, sum
__

 a|
__
valcalctype
__

 a|

(0..1)


 a|

QCodeType


 |Proposed IPTC CV (see below).

a|

Minimum rating value.


 a|
__
scalemin
__

 a|

(1)


 a|
__
Decimal;
__

 |The value representing the lowest, or worst, rating that can be given

a|

Maximum rating value.


 a|
__
scalemax
__

 a|

(1)


 a|
__
Decimal;
__

 |The value representing the highest, or best, rating that can be given

a|

Rating units


 a|

scaleunit


 a|

(1)


 a|

QCodeType


 |Two values in the proposed IPTC CV are "star" and "numeric".(see
below)

a|
__
The number of parties who contributed a rating.
__

 a|

raters


 a|

(0..1)


 a|

NonNegativeInteger


 |If not present, defaults to 1.

a|
_
The type of the rating parties.
_

 a|

ratertype


 a|

(0..1)


 a|

QCodeType


 |Proposed IPTC CV (see below).

a|

Full definition of the rating.


 a|
_
ratingtype
_

 a|

(0..1)


 a|

QCodeType


 |The rating engine or method used, for example Amazon star rating or
Survey Monkey.
|=======================================================================

_
 
_

The following example expresses a star rating with a minimum rating of
one star and a maximum of 5. The rating is 4.5 (the provider and
end-user may need to agree on how to handle values that are not a whole
star, for example by rounding and/or using half-stars). The rating was
calculated from the arithmetic mean of ratings by 123 users.

...

<contentMeta>

...

<rating

value="4.5"

valcalctype="rcalctype:amean"

scalemin="0"

scalemax="5"

scaleunit="rscaleunit:star"

raters="123"

ratertype="rtype:user" />

...

</contentMeta>

...

[[content-rating-newscodes]]
Content Rating NewsCodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As an aid to interoperability, the IPTC has created Controlled
Vocabularies (NewsCodes) for the properties @valcalctype, @scaleunit and
@ratertype:

[[rating-calculation-type-newscodes]]
Rating Calculation Type NewsCodes
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

These NewsCodes indicate how the applied numeric rating value was
calculated from a sample of values. The Scheme URI is
http://cv.iptc.org/newscodes/rcalctype/ and the recommended Scheme Alias
is "rcalctype". NewsCodes in the scheme are:

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|NewsCode |Name |Definition
|amean |arithmetic mean |Indicates that the numeric value was calculated
by applying the arithmetic mean algorithm to a sample.

|gmean |geometric mean |Indicates that the numeric value was calculated
by applying the geometric mean algorithm to a sample.

|hmean |harmonic mean |Indicates that the numeric value was calculated
by applying the harmonic mean algorithm to a sample.

|median |median |Indicates that the numeric value is the middle value in
a sorted list of sample values. 

|sum |sum |Indicates that the numeric value was calculated as the sum of
a sample.

|unknown |unknown |Indicates that the algorithm for calculating the
numeric value from a sample is not known.
|=======================================================================

[[rating-scale-unit-newscodes]]
Rating Scale Unit NewsCodes
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

These NewsCodes indicate the units used to express the rating value. The
Scheme URI is http://cv.iptc.org/newscodes/rscaleunit/ and the
recommended Scheme Alias is "rscaleunit". NewsCodes in the scheme are:

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|==============================
|NewsCode |Name |Definition
|star |star |Star rating
|number |number |Numeric rating
|==============================

[[rater-type-newscodes]]
Rater Type NewsCodes
++++++++++++++++++++

These indicate the type of the party or parties that contributed to a
rating. The Scheme URI is http://cv.iptc.org/newscodes/ratertype/,
recommended Scheme Alias: "rtype". Scheme NewsCodes are:

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|NewsCode |Name |Definition
|expert |expert |The persons who rated are experts in what they rated. 

|user  |user  |The persons who rated are using what they rated. 

|customer  |customer  |The persons who rated have bought and are using
what they rated. 

|mixed  |mixed |The persons who rated are not of the same rater type.
|=======================================================================

[[hashtags]]
Hashtags
^^^^^^^^^

As these are essentially uncontrolled values, at least within the scope
of NewsML-G2, so the recommended way to add these social media tags is
by using the <keyword> property with a @role to indicate their purpose.
A new NewsCode has been added to the IPTC Description
Rolefootnote:[Description Role NewsCodes may be used with other elements
when a descriptive qualifier is required.] scheme to enable implementers
to do this in a standard way:

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|NewsCode |Name |Definition
|hashtag |Hashtag |A word or phrase (with no spaces) which is prefixed
with the hash character "#" 
|=======================================================================

The Scheme URI is http://cv.iptc.org/newcodes/descriptionrole/ and the
recommended Scheme Alias is "drol", thus:

<contentMeta>

...

<keyword role="drol:hashtag">#iptcrocks</keyword>

...

</contentMeta>

[[_Ref340665630]]

[[indicating-that-a-news-item-has-specific-content]]
Indicating that a News Item has specific content
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In some workflows, the content of a News Item may not be available at
the time of the distribution of its first version. For example, if an
organisation normally provides a video in HD and SD, but the HD
rendition is not yet available, there is a lightweight way to inform
end-users that the content is planned, using @hascontent.

This optional attribute may be added to any child element of
<contentSet> (inlineXML, inlineData, remoteContent) as a flag to
indicate whether the element contains content/content reference or is
either empty/only metadata . @hascontent is simply a Boolean flag with a
default of "1" or "true", and "0" or "false" to indicate that this
element contains no content.

The example below is a <remoteContent> showing that an HD rendition of
the existing SD rendition of a video will follow soon. To make the
receiver aware of the planned release of the additional rendition, the
wrapper has been added to contentSet with only metadata defined, and no
actual content being provided, and a @hascontent value of "isfalse":

<contentSet>

<remoteContent

href="http://www.example.com/video/2008-12-22/20081222-PNN-1517-__

_407624/20081222-PNN-1517-407624.avi"_

format="fmt:avi"

duration="111" durationunit="timeunit:seconds"

videocharacteristic="videodef:SD"

videoframerate="25"

videoaspectratio="16:9" />

<remoteContent

hascontent="false"

format="fmt:avi"

duration="111" durationunit="timeunit:seconds"

videocharacteristic="videodef:HD"

videoframerate="25"

videoaspectratio="16:9" />

</contentSet>

This page intentionally blank

[[_Ref243460693]][[_Ref245987872]]


